Added consortium documentation (#58)
Bambu-Research-Group/RFID-Tag-Guide: OpenSourceRfid.md

# OpenTag: Open Source RFID Standard

> RFID is becoming more prevalent, with each company launching their own RFID system that is incompatible with the rest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RFID is becoming more prevalent, with each company launching its own RFID system that is incompatible with the rest.
```

Did you make a design to add RFID to your printer? Let us know so we can link to it here!  Designs can be 3D models, or firmware.

# OpenTag Standards
## Hardware Standard

> NFC NTAG216: 13.56mhz 888-byte

Reviewer 2: Happy to see this decision!

> NFC NTAG216: 13.56mhz 888-byte

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NFC NTAG216: 13.56 MHz 888-byte tags
```

<img src="images/mifareclassicsticker.jpg" width="200">

> NTAG216 tags are cheap, common, and allow 888 bytes of data, which is plenty of space to store required information. NFC tags such as NTAG216 can be read/written with android smartphones. 13.56mhz RFID modules are plentiful and low-cost and are arduino-compatible to allow for new projects to be spun up.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NTAG216 tags are cheap, common, and allow 888 bytes of data, which is plenty of space to store required information. NFC tags such as NTAG216 can be read/written with smartphones. 13.56mhz RFID modules are plentiful, low-cost and Arduino-compatible, allowing for easy integration.
```

Reviewer 4: I am now realizing that these lines weren't actually added, but the Git diff made it seem like they were...whoops!

Drive-by fixes then?  XP

> NTAG216 tags are cheap, common, and allow 888 bytes of data, which is plenty of space to store required information. NFC tags such as NTAG216 can be read/written with android smartphones. 13.56mhz RFID modules are plentiful and low-cost and are arduino-compatible to allow for new projects to be spun up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NTAG216 tags are cheap and common. They allow 888 bytes of data, which is plenty of space to store required information. NFC tags such as NTAG216 can be read/written with Android smartphones. 13.56mhz RFID modules are plentiful and low-cost, and they are Arduino-compatible, allowing new projects to be spun up.
```

> NTAG216 tags are cheap, common, and allow 888 bytes of data, which is plenty of space to store required information. NFC tags such as NTAG216 can be read/written with android smartphones. 13.56mhz RFID modules are plentiful and low-cost and are arduino-compatible to allow for new projects to be spun up.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NTAG216 tags are cheap, common, and allow 888 bytes of data, which is plenty of space to store required information. NFC tags such as NTAG216 can be read/written with Android smartphones. 13.56 MHz RFID modules are plentiful and low-cost and are arduino-compatible to allow for new projects to be spun up.
```

> NFC NTAG216 was chosen over MIFARE 1K Classic tags, which is what the Bambu AMS uses.  NTAG216 was chosen over MIFARE 1K for the following reasons:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NFC NTAG216 was chosen over MIFARE 1K Classic tags, which is what the Bambu AMS uses, for the following reasons:
```

* More memory (NTAG216: 888-bytes usable, MF1K: 768-bytes usable)
* Smartphone Support: NTAG216 can be read from smartphones, while MF1K requires a dedicated reader

## Mechanical Standard
* Tag placement: center should be 56.0mm away from the center of the spool (see pic)

> * The tag should never be more than 4.0mm away from the external surface of the spool. For spool sides thicker than 4mm,there must be a cutout to embed the tag, or the tag should be fixed to the outside of the spool

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The tag should never be more than 4.0mm away from the external surface of the spool
  * For spool sides thicker than 4mm, there must be a cutout to embed the tag, or the tag should be fixed to the outside of the spool
```

> * Two tags should be used, one on each end of the spool, directly across from eachother

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Two tags should be used, one on each end of the spool, directly across from each other
```

> * Tag placement: center should be 56.0mm away from the center of the spool (see pic)
> * The tag should never be more than 4.0mm away from the external surface of the spool. For spool sides thicker than 4mm,there must be a cutout to embed the tag, or the tag should be fixed to the outside of the spool
> * Two tags should be used, one on each end of the spool, directly across from eachother

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Tag placement: The center should be 56.0mm away from the center of the spool (see pic)
* The tag should never be more than 4.0mm away from the external surface of the spool. For spool sides thicker than 4mm, there must be a cutout to embed the tag, or the tag should be fixed to the outside of the spool
* Two tags should be used, one on each end of the spool, directly across from each other
```

<img src="images/TagLocation.png" width="400">

## Data Structure Standard

This is a list of data that will live on the RFID chip, separated into required and optional data.  All REQUIRED data must be populated to be compliant with this open source RFID protocol.

> NTAG216 tags have 888 bytes of total memory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NTAG216 tags have 888 bytes of usable memory.
```

NTAG216 actually got 924 bytes, of which 888 is usable

| Color Hex | Int | 3 | `0xffa64d` (Light orange color) | Color hexcode. Hex is a 3-byte number in the format 0xRRGGBB (Red, Green, Blue, one byte each) |
| Max Dry Temp (C) | Int | 1 | `55` (55C), `50` (50C) Maximum drying temperature in Degrees-C. Drying above this temperature can damage the filament

### Web API Standard
Some tags can contain extended data that doesn't fit or doesn't belong on the RFID tag itself.  One example is a diameter graph, which is too much data to be stored within only 888 bytes of memory.

> These complex variables can be looked up using the "web api" url that is on the RFID tag.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These complex variables can be looked up using the "web API" URL that is stored on the RFID tag.
```

> The format of this data should be JSON

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The format of this data should be JSON.
```

> The exact contents of this data is still open to discussion, and it is not required to launch the OpenTag standard.  The web API can be implemented in the future without affecting the launch of OpenTag. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exact contents of this data are still open to discussion, and it is not required to launch the OpenTag standard.  The web API can be implemented in the future without affecting the launch of OpenTag. 
```

* Community Representatives: Voting members from the broader community, including hobbyists, independent developers, and RFID experts.

This balanced structure ensures that no single group dominates decision-making, fostering a standard that reflects the interests of both professional and grassroots contributors.

### Non-Voting Members
Non-voting members are integral to the consortium's ecosystem, contributing ideas and fostering collaboration. While they cannot directly vote on proposals, they can:

* **Propose Changes**: Submit new ideas or modifications to the specification, which voting members will evaluate and vote on.
* **Elect Voting Members**: Participate in elections to select voting members through a popular vote, ensuring representation aligns with the community’s vision.
This dual-tier structure enables broad participation while maintaining an efficient and organized decision-making process.

## Previous Considerations
These are topics that are commonly brought up when learning about OpenTag.  Below is a quick summary of each topic, and why we decided to settle on the standards we defined.

> * NTAG216 vs MIFARE:
>     * NTAG216 is compatible with smartphones, and has slightly more usable memory than MIFARE tags
>     * MIFARE uses about 25% of memory to encrypt data, preventing read/write operations, which is not applicable for OpenTag because of the open source nature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* NTAG216 vs MIFARE:
    * NTAG216 is compatible with smartphones and has slightly more usable memory than MIFARE tags
    * MIFARE uses about 25% of memory to encrypt data, preventing read/write operations, which is not applicable for OpenTag because of the open-source nature
```

* JSON vs Memory Map:
    * Formats such as JSON (human-readable text) takes up considerably more more memory than memory mapped.  For example, defining something like Printing Temperature would be `PrintTemp:225` which is 13-bytes, vs storing a memory mapped 2-byte number.  Tokens could be reduced, but that also defeats the purpose of using JSON in the first place, which is often for readability.

>     * Tags only have 888 bytes of memory, which would be eaten up quickly

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * NTAG216 tags only have 888 bytes of memory, which would be eaten up quickly
```

> * JSON vs Memory Map:
>     * Formats such as JSON (human-readable text) takes up considerably more more memory than memory mapped.  For example, defining something like Printing Temperature would be `PrintTemp:225` which is 13-bytes, vs storing a memory mapped 2-byte number.  Tokens could be reduced, but that also defeats the purpose of using JSON in the first place, which is often for readability.
>     * Tags only have 888 bytes of memory, which would be eaten up quickly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JSON vs Memory Map:
    * Formats such as JSON (human-readable text) take up considerably more memory than memory mapped.  For example, defining something like Printing Temperature would be `PrintTemp:225` which is 13 bytes, versus storing a memory-mapped 2-byte number.  Tokens could be reduced, but that also defeats the purpose of using JSON in the first place, which is often for readability.
    * Tags only have 888 bytes of memory, which would be eaten up quickly
```

* Lookup Tables
    * OpenTag does NOT use lookup tables, which would be too difficult to maintain due to the decentralized nature of this standard.

>     * Lookup tables can become out of date, which would require regular "firmware updates" to devices that read tags to make sure they've downloaded the most recent table.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * Lookup tables can quickly become outdated, which would require regular updates to tag readers to make sure they've downloaded the most recent table.
```

    * Storing lookup tables consumes more memory on the device that reads tags

>     * On-demand lookup (via internet) would require someone host a database. Hosting this data would have costs associated with it, and would also put the control of the entire OpenTag format in the hands of a single person/company

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * On-demand lookup (via the internet) would require someone to host a database. Hosting this data would have costs associated with it, and would also put the control of the entire OpenTag format in the hands of a single person/company
```
